[Merged by Bors] - Config overrides (#132)
stackabletech/trino-operator: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/usage.adoc

2.67 [15 rows, 8.08KB] [5 rows/s, 3.02KB/s]
----

== Configuration & Environment Overrides

The cluster definition also supports overriding configuration properties and environment variables, either per role or per role group, where the more specific override (role group) has precedence over the less specific one (role).

IMPORTANT: Do not override port numbers. This will lead to faulty installations.

=== Configuration Properties

For a role or role group, at the same level of `config`, you can specify: `configOverrides` for:

- `config.properties`
- `node.properties`
- `log.properties`
- `password-authenticator.properties`

> For a list of possible configuration properties see: https://trino.io/docs/current/admin/properties.html

Reviewer: I like to use text for links

```suggestion
For a list of possible configuration properties consult the https://trino.io/docs/current/admin/properties.html[Trino Properties Reference].
```

Author: done

[source,yaml]
----
workers:
  roleGroups:
    default:
      config: {}
      replicas: 1
      configOverrides:
        config.properties:
          query.max-memory-per-node: "2GB"
----

Just as for the `config`, it is possible to specify this at role level as well:

[source,yaml]
----
workers:
  configOverrides:
    config.properties:
      query.max-memory-per-node: "2GB"
  roleGroups:
    default:
      config: {}
      replicas: 1
----

All override property values must be strings. The properties will be passed on without any escaping or formatting.

=== Environment Variables

Environment variables can be (over)written by adding the `envOverrides` property.

For example per role group:

[source,yaml]
----
workers:
  roleGroups:
    default:
      config: {}
      replicas: 1
      envOverrides:

>         MY_ENV_VAR: "MY_VALUE"

Reviewer: If there's a better example, like an actual env var that does something it would be nice to have that. Also a link to env vars documentation if it exists.

----

or per role:

[source,yaml]
----
workers:
  envOverrides:
    MY_ENV_VAR: "MY_VALUE"
  roleGroups:
    default:
      config: {}
      replicas: 1
----

Here too, overriding properties such as `http-server.https.port` will lead to broken installations.

> === Tips

Reviewer: Is this "Tips" at the right level of indentation? Feels like it doesn't belong into the override section (i.e. should be one level higher)

Author: good point yeah
